README.md, before:

# Replay Analysis for PP Rework

I will be keeping all the scripts that I use for finding useful information when analysing stuff for **big pp rework**.

## Requirements

Install python 3.6+, I use a lot of f-strings.

```
requests>=2.24.0,<3.0.0
tqdm>=4.0.0,<5.0.0
slider==0.3.0
matplotlib>=3.3.1,<4.0.0
```

Install requirements via pip (please do this only if you are on linux):

`pip install -r src/requirements.txt`

If you are on Windows, I would recommend using `Conda` because for some reason `scipy` required for `slider` won't install.

See how you can install scipy with this one weird trick. Developers will hate you (for using pip and conda both at the same time)
```shell script
conda create -y --name your_creative_environment_name_here python==3.7
conda activate your_creative_environment_name_here
conda install scipy matplotlib
pip install tqdm slider
```

## Usage
### Downloading Replays and Beatmap Info
Set environment variable API_KEY to your api v1 key https://osu.ppy.sh/p/api.

You can do this on linux terminal:

`export API_KEY='my_api_key_goes_here'`

 and you can do this on Windows cmd with:
 
 `set API_KEY='my_api_key_but_on_windows_goes_here'`
 
 This is only required for downloading the replays and beatmap scores. 
 
 Set beatmaps you want to download scores from in `beatmaps.txt`
 
 Run `download_replays.py` and wait. It will download replays in `cache` folder. You can find replays and beatmaps structured as follows:
 
 ```
~/cache
    beatmaps
        145669.osu
        345189.osu
        467821.osu
        ...
    scores
        145669  // beatmap_id
            2158054654.json  // score metadata
            2158054654.lzma  // score replay lzma stream
            ...
        .../    
```

### Extracting data from replays

Run `get_distributions.py`. You'll get results in `data` folder in `{beatmap_id}_{score_id}.npy` format.

### Visualize data

Currently we are only looking for maximum distance between circle hit object pairs. To visualize this information run `
visualize_data.py`.

![image](images/Figure_1.png)

Commit message:

added angle between hitobjects. Hitobject pairs -> triples

README.md, after:

# Replay Analysis for PP Rework

I will be keeping all the scripts that I use for finding useful information when analysing stuff for **big pp rework**.

## Requirements

Install python 3.6+, I use a lot of f-strings.

```
requests>=2.24.0,<3.0.0
tqdm>=4.0.0,<5.0.0
slider==0.3.0
matplotlib>=3.3.1,<4.0.0
```

Install requirements via pip (please do this only if you are on linux):

`pip install -r src/requirements.txt`

If you are on Windows, I would recommend using `Conda` because for some reason `scipy` required for `slider` won't install.

See how you can install scipy with this one weird trick. Developers will hate you (for using pip and conda both at the same time)
```shell script
conda create -y --name your_creative_environment_name_here python==3.7
conda activate your_creative_environment_name_here
conda install scipy matplotlib
pip install tqdm slider
```

## Usage
### Downloading Replays and Beatmap Info
Set environment variable API_KEY to your api v1 key https://osu.ppy.sh/p/api.

You can do this on linux terminal:

`export API_KEY='my_api_key_goes_here'`

 and you can do this on Windows cmd with:
 
 `set API_KEY='my_api_key_but_on_windows_goes_here'`
 
 This is only required for downloading the replays and beatmap scores. 
 
 Set beatmaps you want to download scores from in `beatmaps.txt`
 
 Run `download_replays.py` and wait. It will download replays in `cache` folder. You can find replays and beatmaps structured as follows:
 
 ```
~/cache
    beatmaps
        145669.osu
        345189.osu
        467821.osu
        ...
    scores
        145669  // beatmap_id
            2158054654.json  // score metadata
            2158054654.lzma  // score replay lzma stream
            ...
        .../    
```

### Extracting data from replays

Run `get_distributions.py`. You'll get results in `data` folder in `{beatmap_id}_{score_id}.npy` format.

#### Fields of the extracted data

`{bmap_id}_{score_id}.npy` file contains an array of arrays. Each item in big array represents a valid hit object pair.
Valid hit object pair is defined with the following conditions:

- Both hit objects must be circle
- Hit objects shouldn't be touching or stacked
- Hit objects shouldn't be more than 0.8s apart (hacky way to ignore breaks)
 
 Each valid hit object pair contains the following information:
 
 1. Max velocity.
 2. Mouse x position of second frame at the max velocity.
 3. Mouse y position of second frame at the max velocity. 
 4. Mouse x position of third frame at the max velocity. 
 5. Mouse y position of third frame at the max velocity.
 6. Time at second frame at max velocity in ms. 
 7. Time at third frame at max velocity in ms. 
 8. Second hit object x position. 
 9. Second hit object y position. 
 10. Third hit object x position. 
 11. Third hit object y position.
 12. Time of second hit object in ms. 
 13. Time of third hit object in ms. 
 14. Deltatime between hit objects in ms. (2-3)
 15. Angle between 3 hitobjects. (1-2-3) 
 16. Enabled mods in the replay as integer flag. See: https://osu.ppy.sh/help/wiki/osu!_File_Formats/Osr_(file_format)#mods
 
 
### Visualize data

Currently we are only looking for maximum distance between circle hit object pairs. To visualize this information run `
visualize_data.py`.

![image](images/Figure_1.png)
